FantasySoccer - Team 2 - Assignment 3 (#5)
TorsteinTh/software-design-vu: docs/assignment3.md

# Assignment 3

Maximum number of words for this document: 18000

**IMPORTANT**: In this assignment you will fully model and impement your system. The idea is that you improve your UML models and Java implementation by (i) applying (a subset of) the studied design patterns and (ii) adding any relevant implementation-specific details (e.g., classes with “technical purposes” which are not part of the domain of the system). The goal here is to improve the system in terms of maintainability, readability, evolvability, etc.    

**Format**: establish formatting conventions when describing your models in this document. For example, you style the name of each class in bold, whereas the attributes, operations, and associations as underlined text, objects are in italic, etc.

### Summary of changes of Assignment 2
Author(s): `Torstein Thomassen`

> Bullet list summarizing all the changes from Assignment 2 feedback:

Reviewer: would have been nice to add a bit more detail to these bullet points. As it stands, these are not bullet changes but rather vague points that insinuate changes

- Changed object diagram, to represent the whole system, and not just parts of it.
- Grammar changes and better names inside diagrams and implementation. (e.g not A, B or temp)
- Better and more detailed diagrams. 
- Continuity of coding style.
 
 

### Application of design patterns
Author(s): `Teona Moga (Singleton) & Torstein Thomassen (Flyweight)`

`Figure representing the UML class diagram in which all the applied design patterns are highlighted graphically (blue cube)`

> ![](imgs/dp.jpg)

Reviewer: There are UML constructs for explicitly expressing a Singleton/Flyweight/FactoryMethod

> | ID  | DP1  |  

Reviewer: Good

|---|---|  
| **Design pattern** | Singleton |  
| **Problem** | The **Game** class controls access to shared objects such as the team and player lists. Other classes including the GUI call the **Game** class to access these resources, such that it is necessary that there exists only one instance in order to maintain consistency. |  
| **Solution** | By making **Game** a singleton class, we ensure the other classes calling it are accesing the same object and information is consistent across the system, e.g. every class has access to the same list of teams. |  
| **Intended use** | Classes accessing information inside **Game** are doing so via an unique **GAME_INSTANCE**.  |  
| **Constraints** | N/A |  

| ID  | DP2  |  
|---|---|  
| **Design pattern** | Singleton |  

> | **Problem** | Managing scene switching in JavaFX|  

Reviewer: The gains in applying this design pattern in this case are not clear in your explanation

| **Solution** | We created a **SceneManager** to address the switching between the 4 different panes we display as part of our GUI. We need a unique instance of this class as every pane is initalized within it. |  
| **Intended use** | Whenever a different pane must be loaded, the system calls the **SceneManager** instance rather than loading a pane directly.  |  
| **Constraints** | N/A |  

| ID  | DP3  |  
|---|---|  

> | **Design pattern** | Flyweight  |  

Reviewer: Great!

- *ArrayList<Player&gt;  getAllPlayers()* : returns *allPlayers*
-  *Player getPlayerByName(String name)* : returns the **Player** object with the given *name*

 - *void addTeam(Player[] players, String teamName)*: method for adding a team to the *allTeams* arraylist; parameters are the same as the ones required by the **Team** constructor.    
    
- *void createLeague(Queue<Team&gt; schedule)*: method for defining the league to be played; parameter is a list of teams ordered by their playing order, e.g.  a round with matches (Team1 vs. Team2) and (Team3 vs. Team4) would be represented as {Team1, Team2, Team3, Team4}.  
- *HashMap<Integer, ArrayList<Team&gt;> getLeagueResults()*: returns the winners of *league* in the original format of the **League** class (described below)  
- *ArrayList<Team&gt; generateLeaderboard()*: returns a sublist of first 10 teams in *allTeams* sorted by their number of wins (**Team**.wins)  
- *ArrayList<String&gt; getAllTeamNames()*: returns the team names of teams in *allTeams*  
- *Team getTeamByName(String name)*: returns the team from *allTeams* with the given *name*  

  
Associations  
  

> As can be observered from the class diagram, the **Game** class has composition relations with **Team**, **Player** and **League**, as it is resposible with creating and storing these other objects. While it can store an indefinite number of teams and players, a game can only have one league, as a user can not play multiple leagues at one time.  It also has associations with the GUI classes, which intercat with **Game** to either follow up on user actions, e.g. forming a new team, or get the data to be displayed to the user, e.g. the leaderboard.  

Reviewer: Concerning the composition with league, since you decided to follow my advice on making an array of leagues to allow easier extension later, you could also go ahead and specify a 1 to many multiplicity for this case

  
#### **GamePane**  
  
Abstract methods  
  
- *void connectComponents()*: Connects all components into the root of a *javafx.scene.Scene*  
- *void styleComponents()*: Styles all components as required  
- *void setCallbacks()*: Sets callbacks for all interactive components  
  
### *Controllers* package  
  
Only consists of class **SceneManager** used for managing the *javafx* Scenes.  
  
Operations  
  
- *void setStage(final Stage stage)*: Sets the primary stage  
- *void showScene(final Scene scene)*: Replaces the currently active Scene with another one  
- *void showPane(final Class<? extends GamePane> pane)*: Replaces the current  **GamePane** with another  
- *showPane(final Class<? extends GamePane> pane)*: Returns coresponding **GamePane** 
- *SceneManager getInstance()*: returns the instance of the class

## Object diagrams								
Author(s): `Torstein Thomassen`

This object diagram shows an example of objects with different states in our program.

> All the different attributes and variables has be fulled in with example data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the different attributes and variables have to be filled in with example data.
```
Suggested a spelling and grammar change. Why are the objects in the diagram not filled in? "have to be" - future tense suggests you will still do so.

> This structure resembles a tree structure with branches and leafs. The tree structure is commonly used in many software design. It's an efficient and a good way to structure the relation between objects. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This structure resembles a tree structure with branches and leaves. The tree structure is commonly used in many software design. It's an efficient and a good way to structure the relation between objects. 
```
"The tree structure is commonly used in many software design" - unclear what is meant by this sentence. Nice explanation on what structure you used.

> This structure resembles a tree structure with branches and leafs. The tree structure is commonly used in many software design. It's an efficient and a good way to structure the relation between objects. 

Reviewer: The tree structure fits the purpose, Intuitively looks like a tournament bracket ! You could strip half of it to save space :)

> This creates a hierarchy where a parent can only directly affect the children. E.g the **Match** can't affect the **Player** 'directly', only the **Team** objects.       

Reviewer 2: Good explanation to relate the diagram to the code.

> `Figure representing the UML object diagram`

Reviewer 2: This sentence can be removed.

> ![](imgs/ass3%20objDiagram.png)

Reviewer 2: The Object Diagram's attributes are incorrectly modelled  -> From the slides:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59608110/78667282-f6605980-78d8-11ea-8eff-dd1b1110ca87.png)
The '=' is missing, even when example values are assigned, eg. Name and Score for the Player objects. The object names (on top) are not underlined.

Reviewer: Indeed, take this as TA feedback

> The diagram above shows an example over the whole *Main* class. Where there is create a *Game* object, and the *Game* object again creates a *league* object. 

Reviewer 2: The "Where there" sentence is unclear at the beginning.

This is a league with two matches. Each match has two teams playing against each other, and each team consist of 11 players.  

>  

Reviewer 2: I would prefer a smaller object diagram, and with the second match abstracted away from the diagram. It would be nice to know why you only modelled the **Game**, **League**, **Match**, **Team** and **Player** classes. I would suggest to only model one league. It is hard to have an overview of the diagram. Optionally, adding in the Design Patterns in the explanation would be a nice touch

> ## State machine diagrams									

Reviewer: Both good improvements over the previous versions !

Author(s): `Torstein Thomassen` & `Teona Moga`

The state diagrams of the **Game** and **League** classes are shown below.

`State diagram over League Class`
![](imgs/LeagueState-A3.jpg)

> The state diagram above represents the different states a league can be in. When it is initialized, no rounds are played so the *winners* map is empty; the *initialTeams* attribute represents the league schedule and *leagueId* represents an unique id for the given league, both are instantiated in the constructor to the parameters passed by the **Game** class. **League** has one recursive method, called when the results of the created schedule, i.e. *initialTeams*, are requested. What breaks the recursion is having no more matches to play in a subsequent round, as there is only one team left (the winner of the league).

Reviewer 2: Shorter sentences would make the text easier to read.

`State diagram over Game Class`
![](imgs/ass3%20stateDiagram%20Game.png)

The state diagram above represents the state a Game can be in. It has three different properties that can be changes and accessed with different methods.   

## Sequence diagrams									
Author(s): `Teona Moga`, `Patricia Santana Vasquez`, `Noe Rousset`
`Sequence diagram showing League creation and execution`
![](imgs/teamcreation.png)

This sequence diagram represent how the creation of the player's team occur and the interactions between the game and team editor.

> The player represent by the actor element provides a list of players for his team in the team editor. Once the "Save Team" button is pressed, createTeam() is called.

Reviewer: User inputs players and then presses a button, one of these actions is abstracted away for no reason. you should model both

The team editor checks if the player selection is correct, as shown in the Alt fragment. If there are not enough players to create a team, showError() is called and displays an error message showing which fields are empty.
If the same player appears multiple times in the selection, showError() is called and an error message is displayed. If an error occurs, createTeam() exits and the player must press "Save Team" to start again.

> If there are no errors, addTeam() is called, and :Game creates a new team object and adds it to the team pool.

Reviewer: There is a response in the application when you save the team, yet it is not modeled here

> `Sequence diagram showing League creation and execution`

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38963565/79083424-2323cf00-7d26-11ea-91d3-6eb33b5c0dca.png)
**[SEVERE]** These two fragments look like they needed to be swapped in order, playRound() initiates the match creation and simulation fragment, as it stands this part is wrong

The player represented by the actor element provides a schedule with includes the number of matches and which teams will play in the first round.

Once the Start button is pressed, the league simulator checks for errors as shown in the alt fragment. If there are matches missing teams, showError is called and an error message is displayed. This causes the league execution to stop and the player has to hit the start button again.
 
If there are no errors, the League object is created and the execution of the league begins.
The league starts with the playRound function. Here all the scheduled matches are played one by one in the Loop fragment. A match object is created and returns the winner of the match before being destroyed. The winning teams are added to the pool of teams playing next round. 

Once a round is over, the Alt fragment checks if there are more than one remaining team. If yes playRound is called recursively, as shown by the self-call element. The exit condition is one team remaining, and when it is met the results are sent to the game and the league object is destroyed.
The full results are then displayed by LeagueSimulatorPane.

> ## Implementation									

Reviewer: Besides the inconsistency in the inclusion of comments and the rather large number of very similar statements (utilize iterators !), The code is rather clean and concise.
**[CLARIFICATION]** if you however notice that your implementation grade has gone down in the rubric, it is mainly due to the missing F4 and the incomplete justification of changes you made to F1

Author(s): `Teona Moga`

`Video executing the program:`

![](imgs/gif.gif)

The first step in our implementation process was coming up with very basic UML diagrams that outlined the basic classes and functionality required by the system. We followed an Agile approach, where we would go back and forth between our code and the diagrams, until we achieved the desired functionality.  

> When starting Assignment 3, we focused on implementing the remaing requirements that would result in a complete game experience for the user, such that now the system supports team creation and displays the leaderboard. The only major change is  how player data is generated - we first intended for the user to upload player data, but later decided to let the system do it, in order to make it more similar to the real experience. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When starting Assignment 3, we focused on implementing the remaining requirements that would result in a complete game experience for the user, such as the system supporting team creation and displaying the leaderboard. The only major change is how player data is generated - our first intention was for the user to upload player data, but later we decided to let the system do it, in order to make it more similar to the real experience. 
```
Added a spelling and a grammar suggestion.

> When starting Assignment 3, we focused on implementing the remaing requirements that would result in a complete game experience for the user, such that now the system supports team creation and displays the leaderboard. The only major change is  how player data is generated - we first intended for the user to upload player data, but later decided to let the system do it, in order to make it more similar to the real experience. 

Reviewer: **[SEVERE]** A key aspect of this last assignment is to explain the rationale behind your addition or removal of features. Not only do I not see an explanation for removing F4 : Multiple teams, but you decided to change an important aspect of the game engine and justify it with a short and brief sentence. in what ways is it more similar to the real experience ? Lacking and unconvincing explanation!
